- [Instructor] We've seen how to authenticate a user
with Spring Security
and we know that we want to restrict certain APIs
to users with certain roles,
but we also know that RESTful APIs are stateless,
meaning that they have no awareness between invocations.
So, does that mean that clients must send
the username and password to every restricted API?
Thankfully no.
There are other ways to have the concept of accession
in RESTful APIs.
A common method is to invoke an API to authenticate,
like our sign in API,
and then return to the client
a special encoded string called a token.
Then, subsequent client requests
add the token to the HTTP header.
OAuth is a frequently used implementation
of this type of methodology.
But since that's already presented
in Spring:Spring Security course in the library,
this application will use JSON Web Tokens,
also known as JWT or jot.
JSON web tokens are encrypted data packets
that have the following structure,
a header dot,
a payload dot,
and a signature.
The header has the type, which is a JSON web token,
and it also has the hashing algorithm.
The payload has the subject of the token,
the expiration of the token in terms of a date,
the iat which is the time the JWT was issued
and that can be used to determine the age of the token,
the jti which is a unique identifier of the JWT
and then any application-specific key value pairs
separated by the colon.
It is the payload that includes the information
about the principle, in this case the username and roles.
Plain text passwords should never be sent
in the JWT payload.
The signature has the hash value of a header and payload
that is calculated with a secret string on the application.
And as of this recording,
Spring Security does not provide
JWT authentication out of the box,
so we need to add a third party library
to create and decode JSON web tokens.
We will also leverage Spring web filters
to grab the tokens from their request header,
interpret them and inject them
into the user's security context.